# userscript-webpack-skeleton

A basic skeleton for developing userscripts in node / webpack.

## Setup
1. Pull down, run `yarn install` or `npm install`.
2. Open a terminal and do `yarn run build` or `npm run build`. This should build the application.
3. Go to the `dist/` folder - there should be 2 files there. A `main.js` and a `local.user.js`.
4. Go to your userscript manager, create a new script, copy the contents of `local.user.js` and save. This is a one-time process(until you change the build process).
**Important!** To enable this workflow, the extension that runs your script needs access to file URLs. Currently only Chrome has a setting for this feature (that I know of; Not even the chromium-based opera does). To toggle the setting go to your extensions, locate the userscript manager(e.g. Tampermonkey), go to details and turn on "Allow access to file URLs". This isn't necessary if the script is published somewhere on the web.
5. Nagivate to www.google.com and open the console. You should be greeted by a "Hello World!" message.

## Usage
The `local.user.js` file is generated by the build script from your `package.json` file. If you open that you will see it contains some standard properties for that file, plus one non-standard property: `userscript`.
The userscript metadata is generated from existing `package.json` properties, when possible (with **name** and **version** being the only mandatory ones). Properties that do not exist in `package.json` natively (e.g. `match`, `grant` must be provided in the `userscript` property:
```javascript
"userscript": {
  "grant": [
    "GM_xmlhttpRequest",
    "GM_openInTab"
  ],
  "match": "https://*.deviantart.com/*",
}
```
There are 2 ways to do so - as a string or as an array. When arrays, they are transformed into multiple lines, e.g.
```
// @grant       GM_xmlhttpRequest
// @grant       GM_openInTab
```
Additionally, the `userscript` property can be used to override any native properties of `package.json`.

Further config, with the full capabilities of webpack is available in `webpack.config.js`.
